# wallet-account

Java service housing the accounts and account logic.

## Development

To start this application locally, some dependent service(s) must be up and running, such as the database service.
Start the dependant services using podman with the `docker-compose.yml` configuration:

```text
podman compose up -d
```

### Java Code Coverage Reports

The JaCoCo tool is configured in this project with the `jacoco-maven-plugin` in pom.xml. When running `mvn test`
JaCoCo will automatically measure how many lines of the code which are executed during automated tests and produce
a code coverage report.

The tool generates report output content in `./target/site/jacoco/`. For human reading, the most suitable format is
HTML. To view the report, open the generated `./target/site/jacoco/index.html` in your web browser.

*Additional output for machine reading is created in CSV and XML format. The tool will also create a coverage report in
binary format `target/jacoco.exec`. Obviously we can’t interpret the output single-handedly, but other tools and plugins
can, e.g. SonarQube.*

[JaCoCo Maven plugin documentation](https://www.jacoco.org/jacoco/trunk/doc/maven.html)

### Service API

This microservice honors the API-First strategy based on OpenAPI specification yaml file(s):

```text
/src/main/resources/static/wallet-account-openapi-{version}.yaml
```

API classes for Spring are automatically generated by the `openapi-generator-maven-plugin`
based on the OpenAPI specification yaml.

With `mvn generate-sources` or `mvn compile`, java code classes (interfaces and models) are created
in the target folder. The generated code is owned entirely by the API specification and must not be
commited to the git repository. To implement and import generated
java classes in the controller implementation just refer to the package and class name of the
generated classes.

> **_NOTE:_** The target directory with generated classes must be included in the class path.
This is handled by the `build-helper-maven-plugin`.

Target directory for generated sources (java classes):

```text
/target/generated-sources/openapi/src/main/java
```

The plugins used with the openapi-generator along with configuration is defined in pom.xml.

### Utilize REST API-profile linter

The API should be compliant with the REST API-profile on an acceptable level. To highlight any compliancy issues,
the OpenAPI specification should be evaluated regularly with the linting tool RAP-LP
[rest-api-profile-lint-processor](https://github.com/diggsweden/rest-api-profil-lint-processor).

Start the linter by running the command:

```text
just lint-openapi
```

This will trigger the `openapi-linter.sh` stand-alone script, which runs the linter tool as a podman container.
OpenAPI specification yaml files `*openapi*.yaml` in `/src/main/resources/static` will be fetched by the script
and evaluated accordingly.

The linter tool will generate output report files in the target directory `/target/raplp` which is mounted
as a shared folder with the podman container.

The script utilizes the `yq` command line tool [mikefarah/yq - GitHub](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq).
Please make sure you have it installed in your environment. It comes by default when installing the
[devbase-core](https://github.com/diggsweden/devbase-core/) package.

Report output file name pattern:

```text
/target/raplp/{openapi-filename}-{api-version}-{timestamp}.{extension}
```

File output:

| Description                                        | Extension |
|----------------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Status report summary. Copy of the console output. | txt       |
| Validation rule log details in json format.        | log       |
| Status report Excel file.                          | xlsx      |

A copy of the OpenAPI specification file will also appear in the target directory.

### Ensure API backwards compatibility

When making changes to the API-specification, backward compatibility is crucial and must be ensured.

> **_Important!_**
> If breaking the API backwards compatibility, a new major version of th API-specification must be implemented.

This project utilizes the tool [openapi-diff](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-diff) configured as a
maven plugin. On `mvn test` the API-specification in the project (newSpec) is compared with the current
(oldSpec) preferably from production/sandbox. An error will be thrown if the backwards compatibility
is broken.

Configuration parameters with the openapi-diff-maven plugin in pom.xml:

| Configuration parameter | Description                                                                               |
|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| oldSpec                 | Path to the reference API-specification (production/sandbox).                             |
| newSpec                 | Path to the project API-specification.                                                    |
| failOnIncompatible      | true = fail only if API changes broke backward compatibility.                             |
| failOnChanged           | true = fail if API changed but is backward compatible. Should preferably be set to false. |
| consoleOutputFileName   | File path for console output.                                                             |
| jsonOutputFileName      | File path for json output.                                                                |
| markdownOutputFileName  | File path for markdown output.                                                            |

Any detected changes will be presented in the configured output files.

## Contributing

Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before submitting any contributions.

## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For questions or support, please refer to our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md) or open an issue in this repository.
